
╭─── Claude Code v2.0.55 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│                                               │ Tips for getting started     │
│               Welcome back Tim!               │ Run /init to create a CLAUD… │
│                                               │ ──────────────────────────── │
│                    ▐▛███▜▌                    │ Recent activity              │
│                   ▝▜█████▛▘                   │ No recent activity           │
│                     ▘▘ ▝▝                     │                              │
│                                               │                              │
│             Opus 4.5 · Claude Max             │                              │
│   ~/Developer/Projects/Personal/ai-watchdog   │                              │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

> Please familarizer youtself with the current state of research using 
multiple subagents, then consider the below and see what you think and how 
to take that further / integrate it in the planning.

Okay, so I had a few thoughts just now about the, about the, this could keep
 going for not A, A, I watch dog. So, I keep thinking about this idea if, 
like, how, could you, like, kind of crowdsource or open up research, um, 
through a get, get, especially through get repos. So the idea would be to 
kind of, um, You would, well, and in the other, you say, okay, could you 
kind of open, open up, like, people can post IDs or questions they have or 
things they wanna know or hypotheses? I don't know if you should call that. 
And then, and then anyone can kind of contribute data and proof and whatever
 to a certain project or hypothesis or research question, uh, they would be 
done through a git repo. Why am I thinking get repo because, you know, if 
you do like a web form, then it's like somebody needs to process it. It's 
less transparent and it's less kind of, you know, it's harder to analyze and
 to programmatically access it. So we kind of play into that more and more 
people are starting to use things like cloth code and similar things. So, 
it's in a git repode, and anybody can kind of, more and more people these 
days can then, um, kind of access it, and, uh, and, and contribute to it. 
But though, I don't understand the complete details of it, but you would 
want, obviously, to get reaper to be public, and so then I think people 
would be able to send, like, commit or PRs or whatever, however you would 
call that. Like, that's actually quite important, because it would have to 
be a free GitHub account, like I would definitely not want to pay for seats 
or something. Um, but also, you don't want somebody to come in because they 
could, you know, eventually if it gets popular, it could also be bad actors,
 right? So you wanna, you wanna be able to control it a little bit, but not 
really, like it should be very transparent and open, and you should be able 
to see, like, I also don't know if people could be kind of anonymous, or at 
least like have an alias, because what would matter is, like, the source 
that people post, like, so anything that gets added to a research project, 
so to say, um, or research question, would have to have a clear source, like
 you can't say like, oh, here's data, and it's not clear where the data's 
coming from. So, whether you created the data, so it could be, you could get
 all kinds of things, like people could run their own analysis and 
suggestions, and, um, um, but then it should still be clear, like, oh, this 
is something they calculated, or this is coming from a different kind of 
source, and then there needs to be a link. So, So like everything needs to 
be able to be. Vettable, vetted. You should be able to vent everything. Um, 
and ultimately, out of these git projects, you would get articles or 
research reports, so that, so like you would still have content in a way, 
and the content almost becomes like the front end, and the git is almost 
like the back end, and you could probably connect them in interesting ways, 
where, like, even for people who don't understand git, you could maybe have,
 like, some kind of LLM. power chat box that's in the article that's 
connected to the repo so you could, like, ask it questions, maybe even like,
 if the research itself becomes the most important thing. And it's less 
about, like, that it's very beautifully written, especially when a kind of 
research question maybe is in its initial phases, you could even, like, kind
 of auto-generate the front end, so people could read kind of the narrative 
that is emerging, and then adds, like, new data and insights get added to 
the get repo, you might even be able to, like, automatically update, again, 
quote, unquote, the front end. Um, But I'm also just saying, like, I think 
in a way it can work, but I'm just wondering, like, how would you structure 
the project, the kit repo? Like, not even about, like, it's each research 
question, one kid repo? I mean, maybe, but at the same time it gets can get 
very cumbersome as well. Um, but if you make it one big kit repot, it also 
gets, gets very confusing. Um, and so, but uh, so yeah, so I was thinking 
like, so what kind of structure would you put there so that people could 
like add their own research to it? And, and, but, and I can imagine, like, 
even if you have a finished kind of, let's say, quote unquote, finished or 
published article, like, it would, it would link back to the data sources in
 the get repo, and so people could still challenge things and say, oh, this 
is not good, and like, so, so I think that's kind of cool. Um. But let's 
think through the real example. So we're not real, but like a fictional, but
 like an actual case. So, the one thing I've been, which is very simple, but
 I think it would be doable, like the thing I keep thinking about is like 
this, like, you my, my thesis is like, uh, if you would phrase it as a 
thesis, it's, you could frame it as a question or as a thesis. I don't know 
what's better, but like, the thesis could be, um, the lower, the more, the 
simpler model, uh, in the major model providers, interfaces should have kind
 of this green leaf, so that people are reminded that there is actually more
 environmentally friendly to run, to not just always run, the most, the 
heaviest model, especially with reasoning, because it, it, you know, it, it 
consumes much more energy. in other resources. Um, and then I would even go 
further in my thesis, maybe, which is like, I would focus on the haiku 
model, or the lowest current lowest model of anthropic, because anthropic is
 most likely to be receptive to this kind of idea, because ultimately, we 
don't want to just run something hypothetical. We wanna achieve some real 
change. So, that would be kind of my, I post this, like, haiku, anthropic 
haiku's option in the interface should have, like, a little eco leaf so that
 people are encouraged to choose that option. Now, then, then you get all 
kinds of questions, right? It's like, okay, well, well, is it true that the 
lower models, um, consume less energy, right? Like I would assume so, but 
how would you go about calculating it? And so that could even be a question 
like, I don't really know, right? So, I could, like, of course, I could use 
AI to kind of, come up with an initial ID of like how you would calculate 
that and then like I could do my own desk research or web research with AI 
if like, okay, what kind of data's available? You know, they could help me 
make an approximation of like how true that is and like, you know, and then 
is it not actually misleading? Like, maybe using haiku is still, like, the 
worst out of the least worst option, right? Like, like it might still be 
very bad, relatively speaking, for the environment, it's just better than 
than like Opus or something using Opus for like a really basic question, and
 then also like, how much does the prompt influence, like if you give haiku 
a very complicated prompt, maybe it's still pretty bad. Um, and then you 
could also have like, okay, well, is, um, Is, uh, is the leaf the right 
icon, right? Like, does it not imply like that is good for the environment 
while actually it's still bad? Um, and then, you know, and then how much 
data is actually publicly available that could, you know, make, give you 
this, like, kind of insight into whether or not this is something that is, 
that you should do. Um, But I, but I'm pretty sure that the cool thing is 
that you could actually get to some kind of estimate of whether or not, 
like, this would make sense, and and then you would publish that kind of as 
an article, with all everything I'm just saying, and all the research and 
data that you would do to come to the aunt, to, to answer all the questions 
I just posed. I think you could structure that in a git repo, and then other
 people could come in and scrutinize it, and you could even be clear about 
like, well, this is the question I have and what I think is super 
interesting. And this is how far I've gotten with my own, um, you know, 
research and data, and you can see it all here, and my own, you know, 
assessment of this is that actually, well, it's kind of like an 
approximation, and I'm, like, 50% sure or 60 that this is meaningful or 
accurate. So, I invite anybody to come in and, like, add data sources and 
insights and whatever they could make this, they could either, disprove or 
prove this, right? Um, and so that's something, and so that's why, yeah, I 
think that way you could tackle all kinds of questions and ideas that for 
within this, um, research spectrum, and you would still be able to generate,
 like, like, and and I think that the most obvious one is just doing these 
kind of basic ideas that you can, you know, pretty well. validate or review 
with like, um, with like, you know, all kinds of data and insights and 
things you can find online and in books and whatever. Um, and then you can 
slowly build it out and then then you could even, with this model, maybe get
 to like the investigative Germanism part. And I think also like, again, 
with, if people contribute that, um, and I think a lot of people would 
volunteer to, to do this and to look at it, they would find it interesting. 
And then, I think you could still, like on the front end, if I use that 
information to then write like some really good articles or reports about 
it, I wouldn't see why, and if you credit the people who have helped, like, 
why either you couldn't just charge for that, because I'm still doing the 
work of turning it into great content, or you can even find a distribution 
mechanism where you say like, okay, well, if we make any money, we'd like, 
This research, because you can also trace everything back to like what was 
everybody's contribution. So, if you can trace it back, you might even be 
able to say like, okay, well, if we, any revenue we make from this 
particular research, um, we will, um, you know, we will funnel that back to 
the people who have contributed to the research. something like that. Um, 
yeah, I mean, that's where my, So this at with this, but, um, I find it kind
 of an interesting direction. Yeah. Curious to hear. What did you think? 

⏺ I'll explore the current research state using multiple agents in parallel,
   then synthesize your ideas about open-source research via git repos.

⏺ Explore(Explore research docs structure)
  ⎿  Done (12 tool uses · 49.2k tokens · 1m 10s)                           

⏺ This is a rich set of ideas. Let me synthesize what you're proposing with
  the existing research direction.

  ---
  Your Core Idea: Git-Native Open Research

  What I'm hearing is a model where:

  1. Git repos = research backend - all data, sources, analysis stored in
  structured, versionable format
  2. Auto-generated front-end - articles/reports synthesized from the repo
  data, possibly LLM-powered
  3. Crowdsourced contributions - anyone can add evidence, challenge claims,
   improve analysis via PRs
  4. Source-mandatory - every claim must link to verifiable data (calculated
   analysis clearly labeled as such)
  5. Revenue traceable to contribution - if monetized, contributors get
  credited/compensated proportionally

  ---
  How This Fits the Existing Direction

  Your document 12-open-source-direction.md already outlines:
  - GitHub as home for methodology, data, research
  - Radical transparency
  - Volunteer contributor model
  - Self-accountability (publishing own token usage)

  What you're adding now is the mechanism - specifically how research
  actually gets structured and contributed to. This is the missing "how" to
  the existing "what."

  ---
  The Eco-Leaf Hypothesis: A Concrete Test Case

  Your example is excellent for prototyping this model:

  Hypothesis: Anthropic's Claude interface should display an eco-indicator
  (leaf icon) on Haiku to encourage users toward lower-energy model
  selection.

  Research questions that would need data:
  | Question                                | Type        | Sources Needed
                                               |
  |-----------------------------------------|-------------|-----------------
  ---------------------------------------------|
  | Do smaller models use less energy?      | Technical   | Anthropic
  disclosures, academic papers, inference benchmarks |
  | How much less? Quantified.              | Calculation | Token counts,
  estimated compute, power consumption studies   |
  | Does prompt complexity matter?          | Technical   | Inference cost
  research, context window impact studies       |
  | Is "leaf" misleading (less bad ≠ good)? | Ethical/UX  | Greenwashing
  research, behavioral economics                  |
  | Would Anthropic actually do this?       | Strategic   | Company values,
  precedent, competitive pressure              |

  Each question becomes a "research thread" that can be independently
  contributed to.

  ---
  Repo Structure Options

  Option A: Monorepo with structured directories

  ai-watchdog/
  ├── research/
  │   ├── hypotheses/
  │   │   └── eco-leaf-haiku/
  │   │       ├── hypothesis.md      # The claim
  │   │       ├── questions/         # Sub-questions to answer
  │   │       ├── evidence/          # Sourced data, papers, quotes
  │   │       ├── analysis/          # Calculations, interpretations
  │   │       ├── challenges/        # Counter-arguments, gaps
  │   │       └── status.md          # Current confidence level
  │   └── ...
  ├── contributors/                  # Contributor profiles, perspectives
  ├── methodology/                   # How we evaluate evidence
  └── outputs/                       # Generated articles/reports

  Pros: Single repo, easy to clone, cross-reference between hypotheses
  Cons: Gets unwieldy at scale, harder to manage permissions per topic

  Option B: One repo per research question

  org/eco-leaf-haiku/
  org/training-data-consent/
  org/labor-practices-openai/

  Pros: Clean separation, independent issue trackers per question
  Cons: Fragmented, harder to see the whole picture

  Option C: Hybrid - Monorepo with spawned repos for mature hypotheses

  Start everything in one repo. When a research question matures
  (significant evidence, multiple contributors), spin it into its own repo.

  My recommendation: Start with Option A (monorepo). It's simpler, and you
  can always reorganize later. Premature optimization is the enemy.

  ---
  Contribution Mechanics

  Public repo on free GitHub:
  - Anyone can fork and submit PRs
  - You (or maintainers) review and merge
  - No need for paid seats - contributors work on their own forks
  - Bad actors: PRs can be rejected; GitHub's existing abuse tools apply

  Source requirements:
  Every evidence file could follow a template:
  ---
  source_type: external_research | calculation | personal_analysis
  source_url: https://...
  accessed_date: 2024-11-28
  contributor: @username or alias
  confidence: low | medium | high
  ---

  [Content here with specific claims]

  Anonymous/alias contributors:
  - GitHub allows pseudonymous accounts
  - What matters isn't who - it's whether claims are verifiable
  - Contributor profiles can note "anonymous but sources verified"

  ---
  Auto-Generated Front-End

  This is where it gets interesting. You could:

  1. Template-based generation - Scripts that compile structured research
  into article format
  2. LLM-assisted synthesis - AI reads the repo structure and generates
  narrative summaries
  3. Interactive exploration - Chat interface connected to repo that can
  answer questions about the research

  The "front-end" could be:
  - A static site (GitHub Pages) auto-generated from repo content
  - A more dynamic app with LLM-powered Q&A
  - Just well-formatted README files for each hypothesis

  ---
  Revenue Tracing

  Git commit history naturally provides contribution tracking. You could:
  - Track lines/commits per contributor per hypothesis
  - Use a CONTRIBUTORS.md file with explicit acknowledgments
  - If revenue comes in, distribute based on documented contribution %

  This gets complicated (is one key insight worth more than 10 data
  entries?) but the transparency of git makes it at least possible to
  discuss fairly.

  ---
  Questions to Decide

  1. Start with eco-leaf as pilot? It's concrete, testable, and directly
  actionable (Anthropic could actually implement it). Good proof of concept.
  2. How open at first? You could start with invited contributors (Superpath
   community, specific engineers) before fully public.
  3. What's the minimum viable structure? I'd suggest:
    - One hypothesis folder with the template structure
    - Clear CONTRIBUTING.md guidelines
    - Simple methodology doc
    - Manual front-end generation initially (you write articles from the
  research)
  4. Do you want to prototype this now? I could set up the initial structure
   for the eco-leaf hypothesis as a working example.

  ---
  What's resonating? Should I dig deeper into any of these, or prototype the
   repo structure?



